# 3. Rapid Prototyping

### 1. Low-Fidelity Prototypes and User Research

Prototype ( or "demo"

- Different medium: paper, screen, code
- Intended purpose: communicate the story of your app to your stake holders for feedback or research sessions

Feedback from:

- product team, too close to product, used for low-fidelity prototypes
- subject matter experts, low-fidelity and medium fidelity
- customers, medium and high fidelity
- customers' customers, most important



**Questions that are useful for each stage of prototyping:**

Low-fidelity:

- Is each main function of the app easily accessible to users?
- Do users easily identify what the functionality of the app is?
- What is getting in the way of their use of that functionality?
- What expectations do they have of potential supplemental functionality for the app?

Med-fidelity:

- For each screen, does the design of the screen work to guide users to the right functions?
- Does the user easily navigate through the app to find supplemental functionality?
- Do users easily find the interaction points we intend them to?

Hi-fidelity:

- Does the animation between each screen delight users?
- Does our use of color work to make their experience compelling?
- Do users like how the app reacts to touch gestures?



### 2. Medium-Fidelity Prototypes with InVision

Medium-fidelity prototype: **interactivity** and **clickability**

[Invision](www.invisionapp.com)

- Interactivity - hotspots == interaction points
- speed mocks->medium fidelity
- remote feedback - liveshare for real-time research

Nelson's research suggests that only **3 users' feedback** can discover approximately 60% problems in our prototype.



### 3. Lifelong Prototyping

Tips when prototyping

- No scope creep, focus on a **minimum viable product**
- code prototype for high-fidelity prototype

Presentation

- What your app does
- Who you do it for
- Why it is important





