# 4. App Marketing

### 1. Understand the User

classic book: *Crossing the Chasm* by Geoffery Moore



*market segmentation*: break down the total demand into segments and choose those the company best equipped to handle.

create **personas** for understanding you user: fictional user with specific characteristics



4 levels of **market competition**

- product form: narrow, exactly same but different brands
- product category
- generic: products fulfill <u>the same customer needs</u>
- budget competition: all products compete for <u>the same amount of money</u>

Don't need to think about all 4 competition, but to focus on the fitting level.



**5 P's** of marketing: analysis of your competitive ads and disads

-  Product
- Price
- Promotion
- Place
- People



**Value proposition** is very important in the process of marketing as a summary of your market position.



### 2. Pre-Launch

- measurable marketing goals = numbers+deadlines = KPI
- researching using [Google Trends](www.google.com/trends)
- decide the **distribution channel**



marketing plan

- landing pages
- beta testing
- distribution channel —— App stores and get noticed



### 3. Launch!

Launch Checklist

- Landing page
- Social Media page
- PR to get social attention
- Press Kit
- Build user base

SEO - search engine optimization / ASO - App Store optimization



### 4. Customer Acquisition

3 engines of growth

- sticky - bring customers back 
- viral - customer bring in new customers
- paid - gain customers through paid ads



**Paid Marketing**

Important metrics

- ARPU, average revenue per user
- LTV, lifetime value
- CPA, cost per acquisition

The ratio of CPA and LTV is important to measure a business model.



Optional channels

- Use [Google Adwords](adwords.google.com) as paid marketing channel.
- Direct media buying - Google Display Networks
- Affiliate Marketing
- Inbound marketing
- Email Marketing
- Growth hacking



### 5. Measurement Fundamentals

You need to match the **metric** to the goal.

*"Google Analytics"* is a software many companies use to help track users' behaviors on their Apps and websites.

**A/B testing**

- Control group: do not see changes to the campaign
- Experimental group: changes are made and see their responses



























