# 5. Get Your Startup Started

### 1. Set your goals

**Vision Statements**

- Declaration of objectives
- Your BIG DREAM
- Team's north star

**Mission Statements**

- Functions, market and goals
- Ground your BIG DREAM
- Current capabilities

**Opportunity Cost**

- "The loss of potential gain from other alternatives when one alternative is chosen."

**Creating Guidelines**

- meet the goals your set
- How will you accomplish these goals?
- What will you do?



### 2. Define the Skills you need

**Evaluate Your Needs**

Break down the techniques needed to meet your goals into 1 of 4 major categories.

- Engineering
- Sales
- Marketing
- Operations

**Refine Your Needs**

Take some time to refine each of the needs you identified into more specific skill sets.

**Engineering**

- Front-end
- Back-end
- Mobile
- Data

**Sales**

- Prospect
- Present
- Handle objections
- Close

**Marketing**

- Copywriting
- Email marketing
- Social media
- Search engine optimization

**Operations**

- Legal
- Accounting
- HR



### 3. Build your team

**Find a Cofounder**

Learn why a cofounder is useful, how to approach finding one, and what type of person might be right for you to work with.

**Find a Mentor**

Mentors can help provide the guidance needed to get your business on track and keep you from making common mistakes.

**Find Freelancers**

Freelancers can help you get the skills you need without having to commit to a full time employee.

**Find Employees**

At some point, you'll need to hire employees for your business. You'll get some advice from seasoned entrepreneurs about how to attract and hire employees.



### 4. Get Capital for your business

**Bootstrapping**

Learn to leverage your own resources by bootstrapping your business.

**Debt**

Find loans to help give you the resources you need to get off the ground.

**Angel Investors**

Angel investors provide financial backing for small startups. You can find these investors in local meetups or within your personal network.

**Venture Capitalists**

A venture capitalist is an individual or group that provides larger investments for startups ready to expand.

**Incubators and Accelerators**

Firms that helps foster early-stage companies through the developmental phases until they have the right financial and physical resources to function on their own.



### 5. Create your pitch deck

**Introduction**

Here, you'll write an engaging introduction to your pitch, including the hook, the problem your business solves, and your solution to this problem.

**Details**

Now that you've got your audience hooked, you'll need to provide some details about your business. In this section, you'll learn how to discuss your market size, monetization strategy, product, user validation, competitive analysis and marketing plan.

**Close**

You gave all the details you can and it's time to close out your pitch. In this section, you'll tell investors about your founding team, your next steps as a business, and one final thought you'd like to leave people with about your startup.

**Overcome Objections**

Hear a bit from experienced entrepreneurs about why investors tend to reject startups, and what you can do to overcome some of these rejections.

**Refine Your Pitch**

Now that you've got all the pieces, you need to put them together and rehearse your pitch. You'll also need to create different versions of the pitch so you'll be ready for any situation. In this section, you'll write one-line, 30-second, and 60-second versions of your pitch.











